docs/developer/design_guidelines.md, before:

# Design Guidelines

The Keystone-API project adheres to the following design guidelines.

### Serializing Relational Data

Serialized records will always reference related entities using ID values.
When serializing a one-to-one relationship, ID values are included for both directions of the relationship.

!!! example "Example: Serializing A One-to-One Relationship"

    The following example demonstrates a one-to-one relationship between the `Library` and `Address` models.

    ```mermaid
    classDiagram
        direction LR
        Library "1" -- "1" Address : Related (by ID)
        class Library {
          +id: int
          +name: string
          +address_id: int
        }
        class Address {
          +id: int
          +street: string
        }
    ```

    When serializing a `Library` instance, the corresponding `Address` record is linked to by its ID.

    ```json
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Franklin Public Library",
      "address": 5
    }
    ```

    ID values are always included in both directions of a one-to-one relationship.
    
    ```json
    {
      "id": 1,
      "street": "Franklin Public Library",
      "library": 5
    }
    ```

In all other cases ID values are only required in one direction.
Including ID values in both directions is allowed but not required.

!!! example "Example: Serializing A One-to-Many Relationship"

    The following example demonstrates a one-to-many relationship between the `Library` and `Book` models.

    ```mermaid
    classDiagram
        direction LR
        Library "1" *-- "0..*" Book : Contains
        class Library {
          +id: int
          +name: string
        }
        class Book {
          +id: int
          +title: string
        }
    ```

    When serializing instances of the `Library` model, any related `Book` instances are returned as a list of ID vlaues.

    ```json
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Franklin Public Library",
      "books": [1, 2]
    }
    ```

Commit message:

Adds design guidelines for HTTP response codes (#451)

docs/developer/design_guidelines.md, after:

# Design Guidelines

The Keystone-API project adheres to the following design guidelines.

## Choosing HTTP Error Codes

When an HTTP request fails, the reason should be easily discernible.
Unfortunately, an invalid or improper request will sometimes fail for more than one reason.
To ensure response codes are generated consistently across endpoints, user requests are validated according to a standard order of operations.
The appropriate failure response is determined by the first validation step to fail.

### Request Validation Order

1. **User authentication status:** 
   Unauthenticated users attempting to access an endpoint requiring authentication are returned a `403 - Forbidden` error.
2. **Support for the requested method:** 
   Requests containing an unsupported HTTP method (e.g., `TRACE`) are returned a `405 - Method Not Allowed` error.
3. **Role Based Access Controls (RBAC):** 
   Requests that are prohibited by RBAC or other buisiness permissions logic are returned a `403 - Forbidden` error.
4. **Additional request verification:**
   Any request verification not included in the previous checks are evaluated last.
   Response codes in this step are generated according to standard practices.

## Serializing Relational Data

Serialized records will always reference related entities using ID values.
When serializing a one-to-one relationship, ID values are included for both directions of the relationship.

!!! example "Example: Serializing A One-to-One Relationship"

    The following example demonstrates a one-to-one relationship between the `Library` and `Address` models.

    ```mermaid
    classDiagram
        direction LR
        Library "1" -- "1" Address : Related (by ID)
        class Library {
          +id: int
          +name: string
          +address_id: int
        }
        class Address {
          +id: int
          +street: string
        }
    ```

    When serializing a `Library` instance, the corresponding `Address` record is linked to by its ID.

    ```json
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Franklin Public Library",
      "address": 5
    }
    ```

    ID values are always included in both directions of a one-to-one relationship.
    
    ```json
    {
      "id": 1,
      "street": "Franklin Public Library",
      "library": 5
    }
    ```

In all other cases ID values are only required in one direction.
Including ID values in both directions is allowed but not required.

!!! example "Example: Serializing A One-to-Many Relationship"

    The following example demonstrates a one-to-many relationship between the `Library` and `Book` models.

    ```mermaid
    classDiagram
        direction LR
        Library "1" *-- "0..*" Book : Contains
        class Library {
          +id: int
          +name: string
        }
        class Book {
          +id: int
          +title: string
        }
    ```

    When serializing instances of the `Library` model, any related `Book` instances are returned as a list of ID vlaues.

    ```json
    {
      "id": 1,
      "name": "Franklin Public Library",
      "books": [1, 2]
    }
    ```
