docs/api/filtering.md, before:

# Filtering Requests

When querying data from an API endpoint, the returned records can be filtered using URL parameters.
In the following example, returned records are limited to those where the `example` field equals `100`:

```
my.domain.com/endpoint?example=100
```

More advanced filtering is achieved by adding query filters.
Query filters are specified using a double underscre (`__`) followed by filter expression.
For example, the following API call will return records when the `example` field is greater than `50` but less than `150`:

```
my.domain.com/endpoint?example__gt=50&example_lt=150
```

Available query filters are summarized in the tables below.

### General Filters

The following filters are available for all data types.

| Query Expression | Description                                              | Example              |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `in`             | Whether the value is in a comma-separated list of values | `field__in=1,2,3`    |
| `isnull`         | Whether the value is none                                | `field__isnull=true` |

### Numeric Filters

The following filters are available for numerical data such as floats and integers.

| Query Expression | Description                                                 | Example          |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `lt`             | Whether the value is less than another value                | `field__lt=100`  |
| `lte`            | Whether the value is less than or equal to another value    | `field__lte=100` |
| `gt`             | Whether the value is greater than another value             | `field__gt=100`  |
| `gte`            | Whether the value is greater than or equal to another value | `field__gte=100` |

### String Filters

The following filters are available for text and character values.

| Query Expression | Description                                  | Example                     |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `contains`       | Whether the value contains subtext           | `field__contains=subtext`   |
| `startswith`     | Whether the value starts with the given text | `field__startswith=subtext` |
| `endswith`       | Whether the value ends with the given text   | `field__endswith=subtext`   |

### Date Filters

The following filters are available for date and datetime values in ISO-8601 format.

| Query Expression | Description                                                 | Example                 |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| `year`           | Whether the date value matches a given year                 | `field__year=2022`      |
| `month`          | Whether the date value matches a given month                | `field__month=12`       |
| `day`            | Whether the date value matches a given day                  | `field__day=25`         |
| `week`           | Whether the date value falls on a given week of the month   | `field__week=52`        |
| `week_day`       | Whether the date value falls a given day of the week        | `field__week_day=1`     |
| `lt`             | Whether the value is less than another value                | `field__lt=2020-01-22`  |
| `lte`            | Whether the value is less than or equal to another value    | `field__lte=2020-01-22` |
| `gt`             | Whether the value is greater than another value             | `field__gt=2020-01-22`  |
| `gte`            | Whether the value is greater than or equal to another value | `field__gte=2020-01-22` |

### Time Filters

The following filters are available for time and datetime values in ISO-8601 format.

| Query Expression | Description                                                 | Example               |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| `hour`           | Whether the time value matches a given hour                 | `field__hour=8`       |
| `minute`         | Whether the time value matches a given minute               | `field__minute=30`    |
| `second`         | Whether the time value matches a given second               | `field__second=45`    | 
| `lt`             | Whether the value is less than another value                | `field__lt=19:20:15`  |
| `lte`            | Whether the value is less than or equal to another value    | `field__lte=19:20:15` |
| `gt`             | Whether the value is greater than another value             | `field__gt=19:20:15`  |
| `gte`            | Whether the value is greater than or equal to another value | `field__gte=19:20:15` |

Commit message:

Add `ordering` argument to query params (#452)

docs/api/filtering.md, after:

# Structuring Queries

Keystone API uses query parameters to sort and filter records in API responses.
Since these operations are applied at the database level, using query parameters is often more performant than processing data client side.

## Sorting Requests

The `ordering` parameter is used to sort records by one or more fields.

```
.../endpoint/?ordering=field1
.../endpoint/?ordering=field1,field2
```

To sort in descending order, a hyphen is prefixed to the field name.
In the following example, `field1` is sorted in ascending order and `field2` in descending order.

```bash
.../endpoint/?ordering=field1,-field2
```


## Filtering Requests

Query parameters provide basic support for filtering records by the value of their fields.
In the following example, returned records are limited to those where the `example` field equals `100`:

```
.../endpoint?example=100
```

More advanced filtering is achieved by adding filters.
Query filters are specified using a double underscore (`__`) followed by a filter expression.
For example, the following API call will return records when the `example` field is greater than `50` but less than `150`:

```
.../endpoint?example__gt=50&example_lt=150
```

Available query filters are summarized in the tables below.

### General Filters

The following filters are available for all data types.

| Query Expression | Description                                              | Example              |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------------------|----------------------|
| `in`             | Whether the value is in a comma-separated list of values | `field__in=1,2,3`    |
| `isnull`         | Whether the value is none                                | `field__isnull=true` |

### Numeric Filters

The following filters are available for numerical data such as floats and integers.

| Query Expression | Description                                                 | Example          |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|------------------|
| `lt`             | Whether the value is less than another value                | `field__lt=100`  |
| `lte`            | Whether the value is less than or equal to another value    | `field__lte=100` |
| `gt`             | Whether the value is greater than another value             | `field__gt=100`  |
| `gte`            | Whether the value is greater than or equal to another value | `field__gte=100` |

### String Filters

The following filters are available for text and character values.

| Query Expression | Description                                  | Example                     |
|------------------|----------------------------------------------|-----------------------------|
| `contains`       | Whether the value contains subtext           | `field__contains=subtext`   |
| `startswith`     | Whether the value starts with the given text | `field__startswith=subtext` |
| `endswith`       | Whether the value ends with the given text   | `field__endswith=subtext`   |

### Date Filters

The following filters are available for date and datetime values in ISO-8601 format.

| Query Expression | Description                                                 | Example                 |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-------------------------|
| `year`           | Whether the date value matches a given year                 | `field__year=2022`      |
| `month`          | Whether the date value matches a given month                | `field__month=12`       |
| `day`            | Whether the date value matches a given day                  | `field__day=25`         |
| `week`           | Whether the date value falls on a given week of the month   | `field__week=52`        |
| `week_day`       | Whether the date value falls a given day of the week        | `field__week_day=1`     |
| `lt`             | Whether the value is less than another value                | `field__lt=2020-01-22`  |
| `lte`            | Whether the value is less than or equal to another value    | `field__lte=2020-01-22` |
| `gt`             | Whether the value is greater than another value             | `field__gt=2020-01-22`  |
| `gte`            | Whether the value is greater than or equal to another value | `field__gte=2020-01-22` |

### Time Filters

The following filters are available for time and datetime values in ISO-8601 format.

| Query Expression | Description                                                 | Example               |
|------------------|-------------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|
| `hour`           | Whether the time value matches a given hour                 | `field__hour=8`       |
| `minute`         | Whether the time value matches a given minute               | `field__minute=30`    |
| `second`         | Whether the time value matches a given second               | `field__second=45`    | 
| `lt`             | Whether the value is less than another value                | `field__lt=19:20:15`  |
| `lte`            | Whether the value is less than or equal to another value    | `field__lte=19:20:15` |
| `gt`             | Whether the value is greater than another value             | `field__gt=19:20:15`  |
| `gte`            | Whether the value is greater than or equal to another value | `field__gte=19:20:15` |
